The reason you're busy but still broke
isn't because you're not working hard
enough. It's because you're working on
too many things. In other words, you're
busy but in the wrong ways. Back when I
was running my first company, I was
working all the hours that I was awake.
But I couldn't get past $3 million a
year. And it wasn't until I learned how
to apply my effort deliberately that
everything changed. In this video, I'll
show you why you feel so busy, why this
is keeping you broke, and most of all,
how to allocate your effort into the
best opportunity vehicle so you can turn
your busyiness into business. Number
one, why you feel so busy. So, I'll give
you a biological example and a social
example. So, a biological example, let's
say that you've got a magnifying glass
and you want to burn a hole through a
piece of paper, right? You've got this
piece of paper here and you want to burn
a hole through it. If you don't get the
magnifying glass at the right distance,
you're just going to have a circle like
this, but it's just not it's not
concentrated enough in order to burn
through. You have to get that sweet spot
so that you can get that tiny little
hole and then all of a sudden it breaks
through. But that's only when you can
concentrate the light. To the same
degree, let's say that you want to start
a party on a Friday night, but instead
of starting one party, you say, "Hey, I
want to have four parties on a Friday
night." Now, if that were what you were
going to do, you might be like, "Man,
none of my parties worked out." But it
would be obvious to you now when you
thought like, "Why didn't my parties
work out?" It's because you never got
enough critical mass. Because if you
combined all of the people and all the
people you're going to invite at one
party, that party would then take off
and then become a party in of itself.
And so, this idea is basically what
you're spending all your time on. you
only have a certain number of people in
your network, only a certain number of
people that you could potentially
contact to leverage to do deals, to get
your help from, to help work for you,
all of those things. But you're trying
to start four parties at once and
wondering why none of them's working.
And so, the reason this happens is
because entrepreneurs get reinforced the
first time they quit something and
change stuff up. And because you got
into the game of business by quitting
something in order to be here and
something worked, that's why you still
keep doing it. But the problem is you
got reinforced for starting two parties.
Your first party was maybe your job. The
second one was like, you know what? I'm
going to stop this party and I'm going
to start my own. And then all of a
sudden you're like, man, that was
awesome. I'm going to start more
parties. Rather than realizing that just
going from one to the other, this became
a better vehicle. And starting parties
on your own was the better vehicle
rather than starting parties in general.
What does this all mean? Right? There's
this really fancy term that people throw
around in business and they say strategy
a lot. And I I always like to ask
people, "What do you mean by strategy?"
and then they just make up a bunch of
words because they have no idea and it
just sounds good. Strategy is this. It's
the prioritization of limited resources
against unlimited options. It's how you
choose what you're going to do and what
you're not going to do. That's what
strategy is. And so right now, if I say,
"Hey, what's your list of priorities?"
If you say, "Okay, number one is, you
know, I've got party one, priority two,
priority three, priority four, I can
already tell you that you don't have
priorities because you have more than
one." And so when we get back to like
what is a priority? So priority like if
you actually break the word down it
comes from priority which means that you
can only have one first. That's how
priority works. Now in the 20th century
people started saying priorities which
then basically neutered the term
altogether. But if you go to the root of
what it was supposed to mean it means
this comes first. This is the most
important. Right now you're struggling
to focus your resources on one party.
Focus all of the people you know. focus
all of your promotional effort to get
everyone to do one thing because you're
trying to promote four because you're
trying to have four parties, four
priorities priorities and because of
that you have none that actually work.
I'll tell you a fun example of this. So
I had a really lovely lady Kira came to
my to one of our our our events here at
the uh at headquarters. Single mom of
five had a publishing business. She had
a TV show. She had an events business
and she had like a business coaching
business for women. and she was doing
pretty well, you know what I mean? A few
million bucks a year. When I see an
entrepreneur like that, I just think,
man, you have, you know, three or four
mediocre parties. What if you actually
had all those people partying together?
It'd be so much bigger because then that
that that word of mouth effect would
snowball far bigger than what you had
before. And that's why sometimes it
feels so hard because it's like when
you're starting tiny parties, it's all
manual effort. It's all brute force to
get those first people there. But then
after that at a certain point the word
of mouth start starts growing and it
starts to become a thing. You start to
develop a brand. You start to develop a
reputation. But when you start four
parties at once it never gets there. How
do I do that? The micro people are like
okay I need to be more productive but
let me give you the biggest productivity
hack in the world. Do nothing besides
the task that you set to accomplish.
That's it. Anything that is not that
sentence is not making you more
productive. If it's not you doing the
task, then you're not doing the task.
People have come up with productivity as
creative ways to procrastinate while not
feeling guilty about not doing the work
they know they should be doing. Focus
means doing nothing besides that that
you're focusing on. Commitment is the
elimination of alternatives. Deciding is
decaderee means to cut off. And so if
you're thinking about all these words,
you're like, man, they almost all mean
the same thing. Yes. So just because
there's lots of words doesn't mean that
the meaning is fundamentally different.
just way of different cultures that meld
into you know our word lexicon but a lot
of you know people will try and make
each of these sound nuance it's the same
thing you need to cut off what you're
not going to do and then what remains
becomes your priority and so the most
important decision is what is that thing
that remains because the people who move
fastest in life don't actually move
faster they get more for every move they
have higher leverage I want you to go
through this this this process with me
right now you have your priorities I'm
going to put this in a quotes here. All
right. And let's say it's like, you
know, increase, you know, ads is one of
them. You know, the second one is like,
you know, add new product and then it's
hire, you know, salesman, whatever.
You've got these things that you want to
do. Now, if I were to ask you of these
things, if you just had 100% certainty
that you could accomplish one of them
one year from now, which of them would
get you the furthest? Now, when you look
at all these, you might be like, well,
honestly, even if I were to crack the
new ads, I still need a salesman and the
new product is, you know, important, but
if I don't have a salesman to sell it,
then I can't do anything. It's like,
okay, so then everything you have comes
down to getting this done. And so, this
is now your priority. You can ignore
everything else because until this
happens, nothing else matters. Now, I
gave two examples that were
contingencies. What if there are things
that you could do in parallel? Like,
well, what if I start start to develop
an app so that by the time I have my
salesman, then I'll have something to
sell. Well, the problem with this is,
this is just in my experience, is that
like the parties, there's limited
resources. I find that people actually
do things faster chronologically or
linearly than in parallel, especially
when it's when you're focusing all the
resources of a company on one specific
point. Because if you know that you can
only do one thing with all of your
resources, guess what? You get it done
faster because you have so many other
things you have to do because every
single person feels like they're holding
the entire company back, which they are.
But what happens when you pursue
multiple things is that no one feels
like they're holding the entire company
back and then nothing gets done. And so
this is why you feel so busy. You're
trying to host all these parties at the
same time. So let me explain why it's
actually keeping you broke. What you
have to realize is the real cost of
change. So let's say that this line
represents your normal revenue in the
business. Okay? If you do a change in
the business, then you're almost always
going to incur the cost of change,
right? The business is going to go down.
My estimate is that whenever we do
something new, we lose 20% right off the
bat before we get to realize any
potential, not guaranteed upside from
that change. And so what's interesting
though is that many entrepreneurs hear
this and think, okay, well, I'm like,
I'm willing to risk this 20% decrease
because maybe I'll get a 10% increase on
whatever, you know, on the other side of
this. It's like, yeah, but for you to
get, do you want to have a guaranteed 20
for a potential of 10? It's not a trade
I would make. And so what ends up
happening is that you end up realizing
that the vast majority of tests you just
shouldn't do. It's like it might work
and who cares? It's not going to change
the business. It's not the constraint,
right? Like maybe we have some little
CRO hack we could do. Sure. Is it the
thing that's stopping you from getting
the 3 to 10 million? Probably not. And
so what happens is these are just
productive distractions. If you're
trying to optimize your way to a 10x,
you've got it wrong. You're focused on
the wrong thing. After the 20%, then it
means that number one, if you're going
to take a shot, it's got to get you at
least 20% plus as your upside because
you might not even get it. And so for
me, this is my rule of thumb. I need at
least a 20 on the top side so that I'm
willing to take a guaranteed 20 on the
downside. Now number two is let me show
you what it looks like in reality.
There's two scenarios. Scenario one is
that okay maybe the thing that we have
starts to work right so our performance
starts to go up but then right around
here we're like you know what let's do
another change. And so we have these
changes that could work but we're always
mid another change. And so actually our
performance is more here versus what it
would be if we just changed nothing.
Now, that's if this is under the
assumption that all the changes you have
are going to improve the business. But
what if you're changing things and some
of the changes you make actually make
the business worse? And so, this is when
I see these people who are stuck at a
million a year, $3 million a year, $10
million a year, and they've been stuck
there for multiple years in a row. It's
typically because they're changing too
many things and because they're working
on the wrong thing, right? And because
they are changing so many things, they
never have the bandwidth. are starting
too many parties at once to just focus
on the one party that if they can crush
it, they can get on the front page of
the news, right? And so I had a a
business that came out here, really
awesome lady, and she had been stuck for
a while, right? And so she was starting
too many new things. Basically, she was
always running new marketing promotions
and starting new conversion mechanisms
because that was the thing that she
loved the most as an entrepreneur. She
just loved selling, right? So she always
wanted to innovate the sales process,
but like the sales wasn't the constraint
of the business. She's really good at
sales. And so despite it being the thing
that she enjoyed, it had nothing to do
with the thing that was limiting the
business. And when I talked about the
thing that were clearly limiting the
business, I could see her energy deflate
because she was just like, I'm not good
at that. I have it outsourced. And I was
like, yeah, it shows. And I was like,
said differently. I was like, imagine
you, and she was like, I pay this person
$3,000 a month to manage my organic,
manage my organic, right? I was like,
okay, imagine you paid someone $3,000 a
month to handle all of the pitching
because you use she does pitch. It's
like one to many. I said, "Do you think
that it would work?" And she was like,
"God, no." And I was like, "Right. There
were people who are as good at you at at
making content as you are as at pitching
and you need to be that good at also
marketing on the front end." And so the
issue was that she never had the
bandwidth to even do this because every
single month or two she was changing the
conversion process, right? Thinking that
this is the thing that was limiting the
business. But the reality is she
converted about the same amount every
time and she just had to keep working
harder and harder because she was
getting fewer leads. And so she was
getting better and better, but she was
focused on the wrong part of the funnel.
She's trying to say how like the thing
is is you can only convert 100%. You
can't get past 100 and you're never
going to hit 100. And so the problem is
we need to get more people in the
bucket, right? And so for her, every
time she did this, she would have to
have her team would have to relearn new
systems. her customers might get
confused about her positioning because
it was a whole new wrapper around her
sales process and even her product
itself. She would start losing momentum
because she had these constant changes
that were happening. And so I'll tell
you for me when I look at all of this
stuff and this is what I was talking to
her. I said you just have to accept that
some stuff is good enough because it's
not the constraint. And this is this is
counter to the perfectionist culture of
like everything has to be perfect. First
off, nothing is going to be perfect. And
I love Jack Dorsey said this. He said
make the details perfect. limit the
number of details. Getting this
conversion process perfect, the thing
that was going to unlock the business.
No, it's not. You either have to have a
product that's so good that people talk
about it endlessly and then that's what
grows the business or you have to have
marketing that's so good that you let
everybody know about your stuff. And
many people obsess about the stuff in
the middle. But on either ends, that's
where the highest leverage exists. So
what does this mean in practice? If the
metrics that you have for the thing that
you love are above or at your industry
benchmark, leave it alone. It's not the
thing that's limiting your business
because you need to free up all that
bandwidth so that you can actually learn
the new skills or focus on the thing
that really is limiting your business,
which is probably the thing you suck at
and you don't like doing and you
outsource. This is the cruel reality of
small business is that small business
owners tend to have the most ideas of
things they can do, but small businesses
in general have the lowest capacity to
pursue new ideas. You are so resource
constrained like you have so little time
and so little effort and so few people
and capital that you can actually do
anything especially if you want to do it
right. The best hope you can possibly
have if you really want to compete is to
just do one thing. Well, I'll give you
an example of one of my favorite chains,
which is Raising Canes. And if you want
to really study business, like study
Raising Canes. The owner owns all of
them. He has no franchises. He owns them
all. The guy's a billionaire. And he's
not that he's not old. He's I think he's
in his 40s. He's a savage. And part of
the reason that chain has been so
successful is because he was so militant
about the few things that they were
going to do well. It's like we've got
our fries, we've got Texas toast, we've
got coleslaw, we've got tenders, and
they've got sauces and beverages. That's
it. And if you want to have a sandwich,
they just take the tenders and they put
it between two pieces of Texas toast,
right? Like they just take those few
ingredients cuz they're like, "If we
just nail this, we don't need to do
anything else." And I really want to hit
on this really hard. If you can think to
yourself, if all I did was this, nothing
else would matter. Then why are you
letting anything else matter? And the
tough part is that many of your ideas
are probably good. It's just that they
will fail because of a lack of
execution, not because of a lack of
quality ideas. And they will all fail if
you try and execute all of them. Yes.
Including the one that you love that
you're thinking about right now as I'm
saying this and you're thinking, "Oh, I
wonder if he's talking about that." Yes,
I'm talking about that. And so I'll give
you a couple examples. For me
personally, even at a micro level within
a business, I had a shorts editor who
was a good editor and then we had him
focused on two different platforms and
both platforms suffered. When we focused
him on just one platform, all of a
sudden the views from that one platform
got more than the views from both
platforms that when he was working on
them split. Think about how that is. He
was able to get one which he had already
been working on to do more than both
together when he just focused on one.
You know, every month we invite
entrepreneurs out here to the
headquarters who are doing big things
and that way we can meet more
businesses. When we have these events,
my team always thinks about things that
we could do better. We made this rule
where we said, "Hey, what if we do
nothing new? Zero new things, just
execute all the things that we know that
make an event good, nothing else." And
we did that and then four times in a
row, we had the best NPS, best
everything score from the event. And I
was like, "Right, every time we change
things, RPS goes down. Don't change
anything. Everyone loves it the way it
is. The thing is is that you will get
tired of your business before your
customers even know anything about it
because remember they have zero context.
You might think, "Oh man, we did this
one thing that one time and we didn't do
it this time." No one knows. No one
knows. And so hopefully now you
understand how changing everything is
limiting your ability to win. And so the
question then is, okay, you know,
following my own rules, don't just say
stop doing this. Say do this instead. So
here's what to do instead. So now number
three is how to allocate your effort
into the best opportunity vehicles. Have
patience. Now that sounds super lame. So
let me tell you what that actually
means. So patience is just figuring out
what to do in the meantime. And so I'll
tell you for me personally, I make a big
list of ideas and it is like just name
it something ridiculous so that you can
remind yourself how ridiculous you are
for always having these ideas. I have
this mondo and I'm talking like I
probably have 200 plus items of ideas
that I have of things that could make
money or would be improvements to our
existing business or process. So this is
actually my list. So I have, you know,
AI stuff we can do, traffic stuff we can
do, conversion rate stuff we can do, LTV
stuff we can do. These are all tests
that we can consider. These are
ascension ideas. These are renewal
ideas. And these are just the like and I
I see them and I'm like, man, these are
such good ideas. And right now we're not
doing any of them. And the last time I
grabbed something from that list, you
guys want to know what it was? In 18
months, I've grabbed three things from
that list. Just And I probably have more
resources, capital, and talent than the
vast majority of businesses have. And I
say this to to demonstrate how
incredibly hard it is. And what's really
crazy, and this is nuts, you will feel
so much relief because you will realize
that much of your anxiety and your
stress comes from this list that you
have created for yourself that you have
not done. And so, all you do is you
basically take your entire to-do list
and say, "This is no longer my to-do
list anymore. I'm just going to take the
things we're already doing and we're
going to do them well." And I promise
you, you will make more money and that
will depress you because you will
realize that the biggest problem in your
business is lack of execution, not lack
of new ideas. This is a lesson that has
taken me way too long to learn and I'm
trying to pass it on to you now. And
most of you don't have the discipline to
be able to do it. But the few of you who
do will honestly it will depress you by
how simple it can be. It doesn't mean
it's easy because you will have to fight
your internal nature every day. Like
Warren Buffett has this example where he
says if you only had a punch card that
had 20 punches on it for the stocks you
could buy for the rest of your life and
once you used up those 20 you can never
use them again, you'd be a significantly
better investor. So if you were an
entrepreneur and you only got one punch
per year of something that you were
going to optimize towards just one, you
would look real hard at that list and
you'd be like, "Okay, which of these one
things if I only did this would get us
the the most?" And what happens is that
when you put that kind of constraint on,
you do end up realizing that, well, you
know what? If we did solve this one
thing, it would basically change
everything for us, right? Then why are
we wasting our time with these
not hard side quests? So, if you'd like
our help to identify the highest
leverage point, you can go to acq.comve.
We hold an event every month. We'd love
to meet you in person and have you out.
And if you do those things, I think that
you will have a phenomenally more
profitable business. And most of all,
how to allocate your effort into the
best opportunity vehicle so you can
achieve critical mass.